Okay, I still have Spring running. So Spring
boot is up and running, our little
application is up and running and all we
have is the index page in it and what I
want to show you here is the AxisTCP
Mon tool. So to install this you would
come in to IntelliJ and go to plugins
and what you want to do is browse
repositories. So it says Axis TCP
Monitor Plugin. It's a very popular
plug-in. The project is no longer active
but it's still a very stable
project based on the Axis TCP monitor. You can google it and there's actually
several different flavors of it. There's
a completely standalone one and as far
as I know if you're using Eclipse
there's also an equivalent Eclipse
plug-in but if there's not, you can use a
standalone version. I believe that will
run on Windows or OSX
but I use the IntelliJ plug-in. You can
see it's fairly popular. Almost 35,000
downloads and I already have it
installed. If you need to install it,
you'd have to come into the plug-in
manager and IntelliJ and install it from
the screen and then restart your browser
and then once you do that, you will have
this TCP monitor tool up and running. And
I'm going to expand out this window a
little bit and what we can do is, say
listen on port 8081,
and we'll add that in and what
it's going to do is pass traffic to and
from port 8080. So 8080 is where Tomcat
is up and running. You do have a couple of
things here. I usually set up a listener.
You can use proxy if you need to, but
simulate assault slow connection. I
rarely use those options. I usually just
set it up like this
and now we can see activity coming
across in it. That's just sitting there
waiting for our connection. If I come
back over to Chrome, where we still have
developer tools up and just refresh the
page, I actually have to go to 8081. I'm
sorry. So you have to go to 8081 and now
that's going to hit the TCP mon plug-in
and it's going to go through that
plug-in and basically what he's doing is
standing on 8081, on port 8081
and grabbing that traffic, passing it
over to 8080 and then taking the
response for the 8080 and passing it
back. And what that means for us is, that
we can see this. So the second request
here, we can see the pure HTTP request.
Let's minimize this here. So this is
actually everything that the browser
sent. So the get command from local host
of 127.0.0.1 and you can see that it passed
to pragma. No cache, cache control and
this all stuff just from a normal love
request. This is everything that we
passed. You can see that a human passed
in a cookie value there for us. So this
is the stuff that will get you when
you're doing web development. Because sometimes you're passing in a
cookie or setting a cache control or
something like that, something that's
causing an unexpected behavior and when
you're in some of the developer tools in
the browsers, you don't necessarily see
all this. So this first one here was a
request and then we can see the response
down in the bottom window
and you can see the exact response came
back with an HTTP document. And this is
literally what's going across the wire
back to the browser. So this is a
header and this is going to get parsed
by the browser. So when we go in and look
at, so this is chatter from the HTTP
protocol. So we can see all this
and if I remember correctly, this is
actually a number of bytes to expect in
this. So if we edit all that up, I bet it
would come up to 96 characters. So
that's just part of the HTTP
standard and just to show you that in
the browser, so if I come in here.
So you can see the doctype HTML and then
the open and closing HTML tags. If I look
at this, you can see that it's exactly
like that. So the browser obscured that
from us and that's an actual payload
that's getting rendered as the page. And
like I said it's pretty handy to be
looking at this and so basically I came
back, did a get request and sent that back
and this looks like an acknowledgment.
Thought I could change these accounts,
apparently not. So that's a request in an
act. So I made the request, got that in the
browser, sent back an ACK. So across the
wire. So kind of interesting
stuff is the number different things we
can set in HTML and you can see by
default what your browsers are doing. So
this is a very important tool and a lot
of lan developers don't even know about
this tool to be able to see it. But once
you know about it and you need to do
some low-level debugging to see exactly
what is going across a wire, what you're
sending back and forth between the
browser and the the Spring MVC back end,
you can do it with this tool because
HTTP is a generic protocol. This tool
doesn't care if you're running PHP, or an apache on the background. Whether it's a
Spring boot or Tomcat, Python,
whatever. It's browser independent.
You could even be using
postman and making post requests. So
later in the course when we get to rest
requests and doing restful API calls, you
can bet that we're going to be using
this tool to inspect those requests.